Greetings to all esteemed Buddhist followers in Vietnam.
We are all devout Buddhists who are deeply
committed to protecting the Three Jewels (Buddha, Dharma, and Sangha). However,
some issues have arisen regarding the use of
social media. Today, I would like to answer a
question from a Buddhist follower: "
Greetings, Madam. Recently, I received a
friend request from a Facebook account named '
Peaceful Place,' and I was tagged
in a post calling for donations of
Buddha statues for a temple
in the South, which included a bank account number for a
branch in Soc Son. I also
read a comment from a
monk with another account saying that more donations are needed to make up the difference. I'm hesitant about
whether to donate or not because the
temple is far away and I don't know the monk personally.
Last time, I also received a friend request from a monk.
After I accepted, he sent a
message saying, 'I need a
crop top, I hope you will support me.' I
hope you can give us advice on
this situation. Respectfully,
esteemed Buddhist followers..."
Creating a Facebook account is very easy.
Someone might take a picture of a
monk, use that picture as their profile picture (
A), and give their phone number,
claiming to be a monk from
that temple. We have no way to
verify this. For example, there
are over 100 monks at Ba Vang Temple, and even if you
like, not everyone
knows all of them.
If someone takes a
picture of a monk from Ba Vang Temple, creates a
personal account, and then starts soliciting donations,
we'll be scammed.
Even if someone takes a
picture of a temple, that's easy too.
They go to a temple that's under
construction, or even to the very
temple they're
calling for donations to – they see the temple
under construction,
they take pictures, and then
they use the picture of the temple's abbot or other monks to create a fake account and start soliciting donations.
That's very easy,
not difficult at all in
Asia or Vietnam. Secondly, regarding the printing and distribution of
Buddhist scriptures, you can see on the internet that they even
show a picture of someone's face,
claiming they went to Yen and printed
many scriptures and other types of books. These channels
are printing them, along with their birth dates.
I don't know about that because
what I mean is that there
are many fraudsters masquerading as intellectuals. Some of them are
real, but some are fake.
Therefore, we ca
n't verify or
control them. Because we can't control them,
we easily create opportunities for
others to exploit and deceive. When they do
things that harm the Three Jewels (Buddha, Dharma, Sangha) to deceive, the karmic
consequences will be
immense suffering in many future lives: poverty, misery,
lack of food, illness, and
further burdening society.
We should think more broadly about this when they are reborn as human beings.
The Buddha taught us to be
truthful in all things. What we
see and hear with
our eyes, through Facebook, isn't necessarily true. What we see with our hands isn't necessarily true.  That's
right, we have to
verify the truth before we can believe it. For example,
some temples have official websites,
they have
activities recognized by the Buddhist community, and they are officially recognized as
temples. We only
believe what people post on that temple's website. That's what we
believe online,
but we shouldn't trust what's posted on Facebook.
We have to control the intentions behind it.
Therefore, when it comes to Buddhist practices
during Tet (Lunar New Year), we have to be
very vigilant.
People come to Buddhism for two bad reasons. The
first reason is exploiting the
Three Jewels to scam others for money –
these are people who aren't
monks. The second reason is heretics impersonating others.
For example, heretics
disguise themselves as monks. Like the incident
at a Southern temple, in a Theravada Buddhist temple, where
two monks fought
in the temple courtyard.
Later, the temple clarified the situation and
explained the facts.  That incident was
n't committed by a monk from the temple. Those were
elderly monks, but the person who
came to the temple to fight was a fake monk
working for an outside sect.
They came to the temple, dressed in the
temple's style, fought in the
temple courtyard, and then filmed the
fight and posted it online, saying, "
What kind of monk is he?" They posted a very harsh article.
Later, the temple authorities
clarified that it wasn't a monk
from the temple. So we have to talk about
the awareness we need when
receiving information on social media. There was an
article that said, "I turned my back on the temple," with
a picture of a monk,
but it seemed to be a foreign country, not
in Vietnam. It looked like
Thailand or something. There was a scene of a monk sitting and
preparing a fish.
The second one showed a scene of someone
drinking at a table with
two or three lay people, and
then they hung some clothes up.
Actually, it's not difficult for outside sects to stage such a scene; it's
very easy. We
need to see clearly and know who
this person is.  When did they become monks,
where did they practice, and are they still practicing? I do
n't know if they are still practicing now, but I can see it myself.
But if we just blindly follow what they say on social media,
we will suffer the consequences of our verbal abuse.
Words are easy to say, but the
consequences are real. It will cause us great
suffering later.
The law of cause and effect is real; saying something will
have consequences in return.
No one is exempt from karma. Therefore,
when we strive to practice truthfully,
we can avoid
bad consequences. The
act of donating, printing, and distributing scriptures
is a good intention, protecting the Three Jewels is a
good intention, but don't let that good intention be
exploited. Not only will you be exploited, but you
will also help others
do evil. You will also have negative karma because of
your ignorance and inability to fully observe and
apply the Buddha's teachings.
The Buddha's teachings emphasize faith; don't be hasty in believing until you
've experienced it firsthand. We must
carefully observe before we can
practice what we want to do. The
teacher wishes all of you to be
diligent and not be cold in supporting
him with messages like "I
need a laptop, please support
me." We shouldn't do that; no
monk is allowed to do that. Here,
I also want to emphasize and explain to all of you that
under the rules,
monks are not allowed to
suggest alms to others. They are not allowed to suggest alms to others. There are
monks who hope for alms, meaning those who are devout
Buddhists. They must say to
me, "I am the one who has vowed to donate to
protect you, to help you study
English, to protect you with your belongings.
So if you need anything, tell me, and only then can the
monk provide it." That's
not like
someone who is not yet a devout
Buddhist, a mere novice,
could easily ask for alms like that. It's not
easy to ask for alms or suggest alms.  It seems
that there's no such thing as a virtuous path; that's under the
law, and we must understand that clearly.
When a temple is being built, the
monks are all called upon to contribute merit.
That's correct, or the monks
reduce the Dharma. The Buddhist lay followers who make offerings to the
Three Jewels to protect the Three Jewels are considered to be
in accordance with the Dharma, just as the
monks, according to the Buddha's teachings, are taught that lay people must protect the Three Jewels and
support the
practitioners. Lay people will receive much merit,
much happiness, and
lasting happiness. That's the law of cause and effect. To be
honest, making
offerings to me is not allowed,
but it's also acceptable to make offerings to the monks.
For example, if a monk
sees that the monks are lacking in certain things,
and sees that the Buddhist followers are loyal to the Three
Jewels, the monk can say that the
Three Jewels are lacking in these things,
and the Buddhist followers should make offerings to the
monks so that they can have
better food to sustain their lives and
health.
That's the correct Dharma, and it
generates blessings for the person making the offering.  It seems
we must understand this point clearly. I also
wish all fellow practitioners of the Dharma to diligently practice and
understand the Buddha's teachings, applying them to
transform karmic forces so that they may attain happiness and
peace. Namo Buddha Shakyamuni.